Automation tools, yay, next one.
And I actually felt that this gift
was a pretty good representation of
automation tools.
Because I think that this is what people
kind of see quite often is they see these
two paths in front of them were like,
well, if I use this it'll be sunny and
everything will be perfect.
But if I go the, it's,
this in my mind is truly how it
feels to pick automation tools.
So we're going to talk about some of
the industry standards
first of automation tools.
I'm not going to go super deep into
them on a technical perspective.
I'm just going to show you them and
kind of give you an example
of how to pick between them.
So the first one is Terraform.
The star by the way means that we're
going to be using it in this course.
So we will be using
TerraForm in this course.
Pulumi also exists.
Terraform is widely used.
It's been around for
a long time, basically 10 years.
And it's just it's it's
pretty much standard.
Everybody uses it.
Pulumi however, is growing.
The DevOps for
Developers course that we did before,
that actually does cover Pulumi.
And if you have heard of some
recent changes with Terraform,
Pulumi and even other things are becoming
a bit more popular now because of those,
which we'll talk about in a minute.
But honestly, these two right here, in my
personal opinion, can take you to scale.
They can take you to where you need,
it's just figuring out how to get there
with you know the implementation
that you need.
OpenTofu, okay,
I didn't want to add this but
I felt like I had to
because there's some stuff
that happened a few weeks
ago with Terraform.
And it may it was enough to disrupt
the section of DevOps that we all work in,
so Terraform decided to change their
licensing on the Terraform CLI.
They basically said you know what, we kind
of want to make money off of Terraform.
So we're gonna move to BSL license,
which is essentially a business license,
meaning that you can't use it and resell
it unless, well, you just, you can't,
[LAUGH] they don't let
you do that anymore.
So what happened was the moment
they changed their licensing,
a ton of companies went into
the Terraform repo, cloned it and
took all of the data before the licensing,
[LAUGH] all of it.
And then that through that was
eventually this thing called OpenTofu.
Now, it was originally called OpenTf,
but the main point of it was
to get the knowledge and the basically
everything that TerraForm did and
try and keep that as open
source as possible, right, so
OpenTofu is basically
just tariff Terraform.
It still works like Terraform.
As a matter of fact,
if you add a Terraform module to OpenTofu,
it still says Terraform.
None of the logic has changed.
It's meant to be a drop-in replacement.
Now, does that mean that
you should worry about it?
No, and here's why.
For starters,
it's not an industry standard.
It just got created two weeks ago.
Sure, it's Terraform, but
it's a brand new repository.
We have no idea the direction
it's gonna go in, and maybe.
The caveat or the thing that I put here
is that OpenTofu really only helps at
the moment, right now, during, recording
this, with licensing with developers or
providers who want to resell
Terraform-like solutions, right?
So if you're a developer who's like,
man, I want to take Terraform,
build a platform with it that
people can run Terraform.
You can't do that anymore with Terraform.
It's against their policy.
It's against their license.
And you'll get in trouble for it.
But if you use OpenTofu, you can do that.
So what does this mean?
Well, this could change how things work.
Right now we use TerraForm and these other
tools as like local CLI tools that we run
against the cloud automation to create and
provision these systems.
But and again, this is just my own,
putting on my wizard hat for a second.
There's part of me that thinks that
they're going to try integrating
these things directly, so
that I could just copy and paste a piece
of TerraForm code and it just creates it.
Right, no need for CLI,
no need for any of that.
So I do personally think that that's
where a lot of the innovation for
OpenTofu will exist now,
which just means still, it's not something
that's really important at the moment.
It's just something to make
sure you guys are aware of and
really just to kind of avoid, you don't
really need to mess with it now, at least.
So let's talk about Terraform, right?
What is Terraform?
If you've never used Terraform before,
it's a declarative way of
configuring your infrastructure.
Does anyone know the difference between
declarative and imperative, by any chance?
Chat, maybe yeah.
>> Declarative is when you have like
a surface level API where you can kind of
build on top of it.
Whereas imperative is
the actual kind of step by
step
>> Yeah.
>> Implementation of that API.
>> Yeah, exactly, yeah.
So you the biggest thing to take away
from Terraform is it's just focused on
configuring things, right?
There's no heavy use of like logic,
that you'll use some but
really it's about copying and
pasting things and configuring them.
That's it, right?
So Terraform has a very low entry point
for starting, really anybody can get
started with Terraform as long as you're
comfortable with using a CLI tool and
reading docs,
you'll be good with Terraform.
And another part of Terraform is has it
has massive developer support, right?
It's been around for,
again, a long time now.
We've built and iterated on top of it, and
multiple cloud providers
are supported by it.
So you can provision on Amazon,
Google Azure.
It's just again,
it's the industry lead right now for
a reason, and
it's because of its adoptability.
So this is an, this is an example of
what Terraform Code looks like, right?
And when we break it down, it's,
actually very, very simple.
So the first component
we have is the resource.
So that is just what's
called a meta argument.
It just means you're telling
TerraForm I'm creating a resource, right?
The next thing is is the actual
resource you're creating, right?
So when you think about being
a developer and you want to like create
infrastructure, this doesn't include,
how do I set stuff up?
It's just like that's all you,
literally that's all you need.
To create AVPC in Amazon.
Then you give it a name, right?
Your resource name.
Now, does that mean that that's the name
of the thing that's actually created?
No, that's just the Terraform state name
so that it knows how to save that data.
And then we have our curly brackets.
And basically within those curly
brackets is your actual configuration.
So, to create a resource,
all you need are three separate strings,
and then a brackets, right?
Everything inside of those brackets at
that point are going to be unique to that
resource, and things like that.
So in this case, we're building an AWS
VPC, it's on a cider block of 10 00 16,
it set to default and
we're giving it some tags as well, right?
So it's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7 lines of code, and
you have a complete virtual
VPC created for you, at least.
Now, is it, exactly what you want?
No, but you can go in and add changes.
So let's talk about Pulumi now, right?
We talked about Terraform a bit.
What are the differences between the two?
Well, like I mentioned earlier,
Terraform is declarative.
Pulumi is really imperative.
And I actually, [LAUGH] I sat down and
I really tried to think about this really
hard cuz I think people
might argue with me on this.
However, Pulumi focuses on using
programming languages that are imperative.
[LAUGH] So no JSS, Python, Go, .Net, Java.
Basically, all of those besides
YAML are imperative languages that
are designed to take things through steps.
Now, I just told you that
Terraform is declarative, so
this might already make you see
the difference between the two.
Where this is much more like
a normal programming approach,
where you have to add this, then you
add this, and you write more code.
You're basically building the process
out imperatively in the logic because
of how the language works.
Whereas Terraform,
I can have this resource over here,
this resource over here, this resource
over here it, and it doesn't matter.
It will just,
[SOUND] move it all together for me.
With Pulumi because it's imperative
you're using a language.
So you're not using just pure
configuration language in that case,
which is HCL but in this case,
it gives you the ability to use like node,
Python, go.net, Java and again YAML.
So what does this mean like why?
He's like, okay, that's great.
But like, whatever.
I don't care about the language I use.
Well, you might, you might.
A good example of this is like,
security, right?
Maybe TerraForm needs a way of access,
or I'm sorry,
maybe your automation needs a way
of accessing a very unique service.
Right, and
It's just hard to do in Terraform.
How do I make a request?
And this is something you'd think
a language would be easier to do, right.
And this is where Pulumi can really shine,
is basically doing all the things
that Terraform can't do.
The HCL language that
Terraform uses is good.
It's very good, but when you talk about
what's actually general purpose language,
there's just things you
can't compare it to, right?
With a general purpose language, you can
do like heavy modularization, right?
You can create your own repos of
like templates, or libraries and
then those create your resources for you.
And you can do stuff like that
in Terraform with modules, but
my main point here is that
you're doing it in code.
So all of the flexibility that you would
have with a normal programming language,
you'll have with this, right.
And that also makes it so
that it's more flexible as well.
So in the future, when you have to maybe
add something that's really niche or
really particular, that's actually easier.
You don't have to go,
how do I make this work with Terraform?
You just go, okay, well,
how do I program it, right.
This is an example of Pulumi.
So you're going to notice automatically
that we already have things that we didn't
have before.
The first one is that we're actually
importing the libraries that Pulumi needs
to use because Pulumi, right now at least,
we're using Node .js with this.
Because it's a language, I couldn't just
go in to go and start writing automation.
Because go is just a programming language
it's not an automation language, so what
we have to do and this is why I say you
have to really consider this part, right.
In this scenario before you can automate,
you have to set up the repo, you have to
go in, you have to set up your packages,
you have to set up your package.json.
There's work that has to be done
here before you can actually
start moving forward, right.
Whereas when we go back,
it's just go, right.
So this is a big difference between Paluma
and TerraForm that I really want to shine
here, is it's not that they
both can't do the same thing.
But with this,
it's strictly designed to just go.
Whereas in this scenario,
it's strictly designed to say,
tell me how you want it pretty much.
And in this scenario what we do is
we import Pulumi, we import AWS,
if there was Google, we'd import Google,
right, we'd import other things.
And then we'd start
creating our resources.
Now again, they look similar.
If you look at like the variables
right cider block instance tenancy,
cider block instance tenancy.
Can anyone tell me why
those are same still?
>> Cuz the API's underneath
are pretty much the same?
>> Exactly, yeah, the API's for
the cloud provider are the same.
And this is another thing that you can
note and take away which is, whether you
go to Pulumi, whether you go to Terraform,
sometimes they're interoperable.
Because they're all using the same cloud
providers at the end of the day, so
it's not as scary sometimes to say, well,
let's move from Pulumi to Terraform or
back and forth.
Because you can lean on
that most of the time.
But again, the big takeaway here is
that you're using logic to build your
code meaning that this
is much more imperative.
So, which one should I use?
Which one should I use?
Which is the question I get all the time?
Well, how to choose, in my opinion,
comes down to three main things.
Promise me you will stay true
to these three things, okay?
[LAUGH] The first one is focus on
the problem you're trying to solve.
So many times in the DevOps world, there's
a new piece of tech that comes out,
there's a new way of automating something,
there's a new fancy.
In a lot of ways, all of us nerds
are just like moths to a fly zapper,
[LAUGH] like, we just see light and we go.
And so don't do that, don't do that here.
Use that, do that in your free time.
Right, but don't do that here.
Right focus on the problems
you're actually trying to,
like if you can make VPCs and
TerraForm, stop.
[LAUGH] You're done,
you don't need to go any further, right?
But if you have a need for the language,
like you want to work in Python or
JavaScript or whatever, then Pulumi
might be a good bet for you, right?
Focus on how efficient you want to be.
Anyone from the Pulumi company?
However, I do think that once you start
using code, it becomes harder, yeah.
>> Why not use the AWS CLI directly?
>> It is a good question,
which is like, why not?
Like, the CLI, the Amazon CLI
does provide really cool stuff.
Like, for example, if you want to
create a whole Kubernetes cluster,
they have one command for
it, why not do that, right?
I go back to the get ops answer answer.
How, I'd go back to what AI said.
How are you?
How are you gonna do it again?
How do you, how are you going to know
how you did it last time, right?
That's where automation comes in, right?
You take get ops,
you plug it into automation.
And now you have a source of truth,
as well as a way to deploy that
source of truth, constantly.
You know what I mean?
If you're doing it manually,
this is you down here, and
you're taking it all the way
over here each time.
You know what I mean?
So not only is it, do you want to save
money, but do you want to save time?
Like, do you want to have
to do that every time?
Or something or have something do it for
you automated, yeah.
>> My mental model for
the difference between Terraform and
Pulumi is that Pulumi can be as
arbitrarily specific as you want.
>> Yes, yes, yeah.
>> And the Amazon, the AWS CLI tool
is like as unspecific as you want,
just get the effect, some effect.
>> Pretty much, yeah.
I mean, so I think maybe a way I can add
to that is, when you do it via the CLI,
you also have no idea when
it's going to change.
You have no idea if they're
going to change arguments.
going to change how they do it.
You have no idea if they're
going to change arguments.
You have no idea if they're going
to change how they do it, right?
So I would say like ad hoc stuff,
stuff that you really just need to
kind of do once, CLI is perfect.
But if it is a repeated process,
that should go through some type
of automation because then we can
track it and stuff like that.
Beware, like I said,
do not focus on what is best or
most popular,
really unless you want to waste time.
You'll waste a lot of time, and
you'll normally bounce around a lot.
So I did write some cases for
us to try and
when is the best time
to use the right one.
Any one from this is just
my own personal feelings,
we do have people from
both of that [LAUGH].
For me, Terraform was about the desire
to use declarative configuration for
starters.
That's the massive separation
between Pulumi and Terraform.
And if you just don't really care about
writing it in a language that you want,
I don't really think there's
any value to doing it.
The desire to use a single language for
all configurations.
That's another big one.
Pulumi is really meant to be like,
if you want to use Go with TypeScript and
da-da-da.
If you really aren't going to use more
than one language TerraForm just might be
a good fit for you.
Yeah, it's taking the problem and
making it much simpler, right?
And then desire to use a single tool for
all configurations.
That's kind of the same thing,
is TerraForm can take care of
provisioning this and take care of that.
It's kind of like an all
in one solution and
that's why It's become so popular, right?
So the TLDR use cases is basically when
you got the need for speed, when you
want to move fast, if you want to keep
moving TerraForm can help you do that and
listen like I've ran Pulumi for
a long time.
I really, really, really love it
because of the flexibility and
the ability to write in your own
language and stuff like that.
I cannot argue with the fact that
Terraform, I'm still faster in every time.
And again, when we go through Terraform
later on, you'll see how quickly
we can really do this without having
to have a barrier of like language and
compiler and transpiler or
things like that, right?
For Pulumi, right,
if you want to be imperative,
if you actually have an infrastructure
where you're kind of like, okay,
I want to do something, and then I want
to stop, I want to do other things.
Pulumi will be more flexible with that,
because then you can lean on
the language to, throw errors or
other things like that when you want to,
you can't really do that with Terraform.
So Pulumi is really powerful with being
able to use the imperative configuration
language, I guess.
Again, the desire to
use multiple languages.
I really think this is a bigger one.
I think that if you do want
to use multiple languages,
Pulumi is probably gonna
be the best angle to go.
Because then,
going back to that team approach.
You can have some people writing Pulumi
over on this team, you can have some
people write Pulumi over on this team and
you don't have to tell both teams.
You got to write it in this language.
So that's really nice and
the desire to use multiple tools.
So you might be like, well, wouldn't
you just be using Pulumi in this case?
What I mean by this is that because
it's the language that's there.
You can also use anything else that works
with that language, right, so if you have
clients, right, where they connect to like
other API providers and stuff like that.
You just can't do that
easily with TerraForm but
because it's a language you can do
that really easily with Pulumi.
And yeah Pulumi is covered in depth
in the DevOps for developers course.
So I would recommend watching that course
if you're more interested in Pulumi, too.
And yeah, so the TLDR for
Pulumi perfection.
I genuinely think that's what it is.
I think if you're just trying to go for
the absolute perfect, ideal,
like everything you want across
the board you made yourself,
then I think Pulumi
really is a great choice.
Terraform is about saving time, right?
Pulumi, I think, is really about, like he
says, perfection, exactly what you want,
the specific needs or
scaling requirements.